The President:  Oh, thank you
very much. Thank you very much.
And thank you very much also
to a man named Matt Schlapp.
What a job he’s done.
(applause)
And to CPAC — I actually started
quite a while ago at CPAC,
and came here — probably made
my first real political speech.
And I enjoyed it so much that
I came back for a second one,
then a third.
Then I said, what the hell,
let’s run for President. Right?
(applause)
But it’s wonderful to be back
with so many great patriots,
old friends,
and brave young conservatives.
What a future you have.
(applause)
Our movement and our future
in our country is unlimited.
What we’ve done together has
never been done in the history
maybe of beyond of country,
maybe in the history
of the world.
They came from the mountains
and the valleys and the cities.
They came from all over.
And what we did in 2016 —
the Election, we call it,
with a capital “E” —
it’s never been done before.
And we’re going to do it,
I think, again in 2020,
and the numbers
are going to be even bigger.
(applause)
Audience:  USA! USA! USA!
The President:  And we all had
to endure, as I was running.
So you had 17 Republicans,
plus me.
(laughter)
And I was probably more of a
conservative than a Republican.
People just didn’t
quite understand that.
They didn’t understand it.
I think now, with what we’ve
done with the judiciary
and so many other things,
I think they get it very well.
And it’s driving
the other side crazy.
(applause)
But we all had to endure,
remember?
How many times did you hear,
for months and months,
“There is no way to 270”?
You know what that means, right?
“There is no way to 270.”
They couldn’t get me there.
We might as well
have just given up.
But there wasn’t
any way to 270.
In fact, I actually went up
to Maine to get one,
and I did win the one.
But we didn’t need the one.
(applause)
We didn’t need it. We won Maine.
We won our half of Maine,
remember?
You have Nebraska.
We won both in Nebraska.
We won the half
we had to win in Maine.
So we got the one,
but we didn’t need the one,
because we didn’t get 270;
we got 306 to 223.
(applause)
223-306.
A state called Wisconsin,
a state called —
(applause)
— Michigan, where — by the way,
where Fiat Chrysler
just announced
a $4.5 billion incredible —
(applause)
— expansion and new plant,
doubling their workforce.
Many, many car companies
have moved back to Michigan
and are continuing to do so.
(applause)
Big numbers. Nobody every
thought they’d see that happen.
So I think we’re going to do
even better in 2020.
I think we’re going
to do numbers
that people haven’t seen
for a long time.
(applause)
The men and women here today
are on the frontlines
of protecting
America’s interests,
defending America’s value,
and reclaiming
our nation’s priceless heritage.
It’s true.
(applause)
With your help, we are reversing
decades of blunders
and betrayals.
These are serious,
serious betrayals to our nation
and to everything we stand for.
It’s been done
by the failed ruling class
that enriched foreign countries
at our expense.
It wasn’t “America first.”
In many cases,
it was “America last.”
Those days are over.
Long over.
(applause)
America is winning again.
America is respected again.
(applause)
And the world knows it.
When I meet
with prime ministers,
when I meet with presidents —
and I get along with them —
because they know that what’s
taken place over many years —
not just the Obama
administration;
long before that —
they can’t believe, themselves,
that they got away with it.
They can’t believe it.
An impossible thing.
And they like me.
(applause)
And the reason they like me —
they tell me;
they say, “Mr. President…”
I said — as an example,
President Xi of China,
I have great respect.
We have a great relationship.
I say, “How is it possible
that you got away
with this for so long?”
(laughter)
And he said, “Because nobody
ever asked us to change.”
It’s true.
When they charge
40 percent tariffs
on our cars
going into China,
and we charge them nothing
coming into our country;
when they raise their tariff
from 10 percent to 25 percent
and then to 40 percent —
and they said to me,
“We expected that somebody would
call and say you can’t do that.”
(laughter)
“Nobody called,
so we just left it.”
And I don’t blame them.
We should’ve been doing
the same thing to them.
But we didn’t.
(applause)
True. Right? Hard to believe.
It’s hard to believe.
But now things are different.
Now we’re negotiating
with China.
They wouldn’t negotiate
with previous administrations.
But I found some very old laws
from when our country
was rich — really rich.
The old tariff laws —
we had to dust them off;
you could hardly see,
they were so dusty.
But, fortunately,
they weren’t terminated.
We started getting politically
correct, even back then.
But I said, when we were doing
the great things,
what happened to those laws?
And I checked,
and I found 301 and 382.
I found one, 1938, where we
can do what we have to do.
But, you know, they had a debate
in —
it was really a tough time
in our country
because we had so much money
we didn’t know
what the hell to do with it.
Tough, tough, tough.
It was called
the Great Tariff Debate.
Mark Levin will look this up.
(laughter)
And the problem is, with Mark,
if I make a little mistake,
he’ll let us know
on Sunday night.
(laughter)
I got to be very careful
when I talk about this.
But it was the
Great Tariff Debate of 1888.
And the debate was:
We didn’t know what to do with
all of the money we were making.
We were so rich.
And McKinley,
prior to being President,
he was very strong
on protecting our assets,
protecting our country.
And he made statements that,
“Others cannot come
into our country
and steal our wealth
and steal our jobs,
and build their country
and not defend our country.
We can’t do that. We can’t
ever allow that to happen.”
(applause)
And, you know — I don’t know,
maybe you know.
You know I’m
totally off-script, right?
Audience Member:   (Inaudible.)
The President:  Thank you,
darling.
(laughter)
You know I’m totally off script
right now.
And this is how I got elected,
by being off script.
(applause)
True.
And if we don’t go off script,
our country is
in big trouble, folks.
Because we have
to get it back.
And when I look at what’s
happening on the other side,
I encourage it.
I say, “No, no…”
— I think the New Green Deal,
or whatever the hell
they call it —
Audience:  Booo —
The President:  The Green
New Deal, right?
Green New Deal —
I encourage it.
I think it’s really something
that they should promote.
(laughter)
They should work hard on.
It’s something our country
needs desperately.
They have to go out
and get it.
But I’ll take the other side
of that argument
only because I’m mandated to.
I’m mandated.
But they should stay
with that argument.
Never change.
(laughter)
(applause)
No planes. No energy.
(laughter)
When the wind stops blowing,
that’s the end of your electric.
(laughter)
Let’s hurry up. “Darling” —
“Darling, is the wind
blowing today?
I’d like to watch
television, darling.”
(Laughter and applause.)
No, but it’s true.
So the Great Tariff Debate
of 1888 —
and then we had so much money
we could do whatever we wanted.
We built forces up
that were incredible.
Then, in 1913,
they ended tariffs, okay?
They ended tariffs.
Somebody got stupid
and they ended tariffs.
They said, “Oh, it’s okay
for other nations to come in.”
I won’t use a certain words
because it’s not politically —
but everybody knows
the word I’d love to use.
Should I use it?
I won’t do it.
(applause)
Our great First Lady
always said,
“Don’t use certain words,
please.”
I said, “But the audience
wanted me to do it.”
She said, “Don’t do it.”
And the problem is,
if I do do that,
they won’t put
the little preamble
that we just went through.
They’ll just use the word,
and they’ll said,
“Isn’t that terrible.”
So I won’t use it.
(laughter)
I’ve learned.
Because with the fake news —
Audience:  Booo —
The President:  — if you tell
a joke,
if you’re sarcastic,
if you’re having fun
with the audience,
if you’re on live television
with millions of people
and 25,000 people in an arena,
and if you say something like,
“Russia, please, if you can,
get us Hillary Clinton’s emails.
Please, Russia, please.”
(applause)
“Please get us the emails.
Please!”
Audience:  Trump! Trump!
Trump!
The President:  So everybody
is having a good time.
I’m laughing,
we’re all having fun.
And then that fake CNN
and others say,
“He asked Russia
to go get the emails. Horrible.”
(laughter)
I mean, I thought — like,
two weeks ago,
I’m watching and they’re
talking about one of the points.
“He asked Russia
for the emails.”
These people are sick.
(laughter)
And I’m telling you,
they know the game.
They know the game,
and they play it dirty —
dirtier than anybody
has ever played the game.
Dirtier than
it’s ever been played.
But the thing that we’ve done
is very special.
Because, on trade,
and because of tariffs —
and I know there are people
in the Republican Party
and people — really,
even conservatives —
good conservatives —
they don’t like tariffs.
I’m not liking or not liking.
The minimum, the greatest
negotiating tool
in the history of our country.
Do you think China would be
sending their top
representatives over?
Right now, China is paying
25 percent tariff
on $50 billion
worth of technology goods.
I was then going to charge them
25 percent on $200 billion.
Not like $200 million —
that’s a lot.
This is 200 with a “B”
— billion. Two-hundred billion.
So — but I was nice,
because we’re having
a very strong negotiation,
which if it weren’t
for tariffs —
and I tell this to President Xi;
this is nothing to hide.
I would never be talking
like this because,
in theory, it could hurt
your negotiating position.
But in my case, it can’t,
because it’s true.
I was nice, and I left it
at 10 percent on $200 billion.
And here’s the beauty:
We’ve lost so much money
with China —
$500 billion a year.
And on trade,
it’s such a disaster;
it’s $507 billion a year.
China — just one country.
We lose with everybody, almost.
But China is one country.
$507 billion, for many years.
So the beauty is this: I have $
250 billion
more to put tariffs on.
The numbers are staggering.
Billions of dollars, right now,
are pouring into our Treasury.
And for those of you
that haven’t done the research,
if you look, of the 25 percent,
our country —
as it’s turned out,
because it’s now been on there
for a long while.
Our — and I’m in no rush
because I’m fine with it.
I’m fine with it.
Of the 25 points,
we’ve paid for 4 points,
and China has paid
for 21 points.
Okay?
Twenty-one.
That’s what the numbers are.
It’s very simple.
You know, everyone said,
“Oh, it’s a tax on our…”
It’s not really.
And what China and other
countries do sometimes
is they will subsidize it.
So the tax really is incredible.
But what it is,
beyond everything else,
I can negotiate.
But then you have senators
and a few congressman,
but not Mark Meadows.
Where is the great Mark Meadows?
He’s here someplace.
(applause)
Man, has he been good.
Mark and Jim Jordan, and —
(applause)
— I want to name every one of
those couple of hundred people.
Because we do have a lot. I want
to name every damn one of them.
They have been incredible.
They’ve been fighting.
And I just see Mark
in the audience.
They’ve been fighting —
with Deb, much more important.
His wife is incredible.
What an asset.
He would be nowhere without her.
(Laughter and applause.)
Right?
But they fight so hard on this
witch hunt,
this phony deal
that they put together;
this phony thing that now
looks like it’s dying.
So they don’t have anything
with Russia.
There’s no collusion.
So now they go and morph into,
“Let’s inspect every deal
he’s ever done.
We’re going to go
into his finances.
We’re going to check his deals.
We’re going to check…”
These people are sick.
(laughter)
They’re sick.
(applause)
I saw little Shifty Schiff
yesterday.
No, it’s the first time.
He went into a meeting
and he said,
“We’re going to look
into his finances.”
I said,
“Where did that come from?”
He always talked about Russia —
collusion with Russia.
The collusion delusion.
(Laughter and applause.)
So now we’re waiting
for a report,
and we’ll find out
whether or not,
and who we’re dealing with.
We’re waiting for a report
by people that weren’t elected.
We had — think of this:
We had the greatest election —
in all fairness,
I used to hear Andrew Jackson.
This was now greater than
the election of Andrew Jackson.
People say that.
No, people say it.
(applause)
I’m not saying it. Right?
This was the equivalent
or greater.
You know, they used to go
to Ronald Reagan,
when I first started.
“This is Ronald Reagan.”
Then we started
really doing well,
and they were coming
from everywhere to vote.
Those red hats — and white ones.
The key is in the color.
The key is what it says.
“Make America Great Again,”
is what it says.
(applause)
Right? Right?
But we had the greatest
of all time.
Now we have people that lost.
And unfortunately,
you put the wrong people
in a couple of positions,
and they leave people for a long
time that shouldn’t be there.
And, all of a sudden,
they’re trying to take you out
with bullshit. Okay?
(laughter)
With bullshit.
(applause)
Now, Robert Mueller
never received a vote,
and neither did the person
that appointed him.
And as you know,
the Attorney General says,
“I’m going to recuse myself.”
(laughter)
“I’m going to recuse.”
And I said, why the hell
didn’t he tell me that
before I put him in?
How do you recuse yourself?
But the person that appointed
Robert Mueller
never received a vote.
Robert Mueller put 13
of the angriest Democrats
in the history of our country
on the commission.
(laughter)
Now, how do you do that?
These are angry, angry people.
You take a look at them.
One of them was involved
with the Hillary Clinton
Foundation, running it.
Another one has perhaps
the worst reputation
of any human being
I’ve ever seen.
(laughter)
All killers.
In fact, it would’ve been
actually better for them
if they put half and half,
and Mueller can do
whatever he wants anyway,
which he’ll probably do.
But we have conflicts.
I had a nasty
business transaction
with Robert Mueller
a number of years ago.
I said, why isn’t
that mentioned?
He wanted the job
as FBI Director.
I mean, these are things that
are out there; they know it.
Why isn’t that —
and I didn’t give it to him.
Why isn’t that mentioned?
Jim Comey — Lyin’ James Comey —
Audience:  Booo —
The President:  —
is his best friend.
James Comey is his best friend.
And those are a few
of the conflicts.
Other than that,
it’s wonderful.
(laughter)
So — so everybody is waiting.
I thought of it
this morning, Mark.
And I heard you made
an incredible speech
and statement today. Mark Levin.
I heard it was incredible.
(applause)
And I was on the way.
But I’ll see it later.
I guarantee I’ll be
watching it later.
I have one of the great
inventions in history.
It’s called TiVo.
(laughter)
I think it’s actually better
than television,
because television
is practically useless
without TiVo, right?
(laughter)
But I’ll be watching it later,
Mark.
But people that got no votes.
But I heard this morning,
“President Trump is waiting
for the Mueller report.”
I said, wait a minute,
let me get this straight.
(laughter)
So the Attorney General
recuses himself,
and I don’t fire him.
No obstruction.
That’s the other thing:
If you use your right,
if you use your power,
if you use Article 2,
it’s called obstruction.
But only for Trump.
For nobody else.
(laughter)
So the Attorney General
is weak and ineffective,
and he doesn’t do
what he should’ve done.
Somebody that never got a vote
writes a powerful letter —
horrible — about Comey.
Every single Democrat said
Comey should be fired,
or worse, if possible.
(laughter)
Every Republican said —
everybody — in fact,
when I fired Comey,
I said, “You know…”
— First Lady — I said, “Melania,
I’m doing something today.
I’m doing it because
it really has to be done.”
He’s bad. He’s a bad, bad —
he’s a bad, bad guy.
That’s been proven now with
all of the emails and the texts.
“I’m doing something
that has to be done.
But you know the good news?
It’s going to be bipartisan.
It’s going to be so popular,
it’s going to be bipartisan.”
(laughter)
Every Democrat hates him.
Every Republican hates him.
He did a horrible job
at the FBI.
Speak to the real agents,
the real people.
Because the people in the FBI
are incredible people —
not the sleaze on top.
(applause)
And I said to the First Lady —
I said,
“But you know the good news?
The good news is that this is
going to be so bipartisan.
Everyone is going to love it.”
So we fire Comey.
And Schumer — who called for
his resignation many times —
Podesta, I believe that day —
because he still hasn’t
gotten over
getting his ass kicked, okay?
(applause)
I believe that day called
for his resignation.
That day. Podesta,
the great genius of campaigns.
(laughter)
He called for
the Comey resignation.
Others — almost every,
I would say.
Mark, would you say virtually
every Democrat,
virtually every —
I can’t think of anybody
that said he’s doing a good job.
So I said to Melania,
“Melania, the good news,
this will be a popular thing.”
(laughter)
And I fire a bad cop.
I fire a dirty cop.
And all of a sudden,
the Democrats say,
“How dare he fire him.
How dare he do this.”
And that’s where we are, folks.
That’s where we are.
We’re in this swamp
of Washington, D.C.
But you know what?
We’re winning, and they’re not.
We’re winning.
(applause)
So, just to finish —
and I’ll tell you,
Matt Schlapp is loving this.
(laughter)
He’s saying, “This is a lot more
than we paid for.”
You know, normally you read
a few pages and you say,
“Bye, folks.”
But you know
what I like about this?
Number one, I’m in love,
and you’re in love.
We’re all in love together.
We’ve done something
that nobody has ever done.
(applause)
Right? It’s easy. No, it’s easy.
You know, a great friend of mine
from New York,
he’s a stone-cold killer.
He’s a brutal man.
He’s actually not even
a good friend of mine
because he’d turn on me
in two seconds if it was
(inaudible).
(laughter)
But he’s a very rich guy.
And he said, “What are you
going to speak about today?
Like, what are you
going to speak?”
I said, “I don’t know.
I don’t know.”
(laughter)
He said, “I just heard
that you have the biggest crowd
in the history of CPAC.
They’re all over.
By the way,
not only in this giant room.
They’re in many hotel rooms
all over the place.
You’re just better
at real estate than they are.”
(Laughter and applause.)
True.
But this guy — you all know
his name — very rich guy.
And he has a problem with
a thing called public speaking.
If he has to speak to more than
like five people, he chokes.
(laughter)
He can’t breathe.
You know, juh-juh.
“Are you okay?”
He kills people for a living —
meaning mentally
and financially —
but if there’s like an audience
of nine, it’s like “augh.”
(laughter)
So he said to me,
“How the hell do you do that?”
And I said, “It’s easy.”
And the reason it’s easy —
I really mean this —
there’s so much love
in this room, it’s easy to talk.
You can talk your heart out.
You really could.
There’s love in this room.
(applause)
You can talk your heart out.
It’s easy.
(applause)
It’s easy. It’s easy.
And we’ve had that from the day
I came down with your First Lady
on the escalator in Trump Tower.
It’s been easy.
(applause)
And you know what?
We never had an empty seat.
We went out
and helped Ted Cruz.
We went out and helped
so many people.
And I’ll tell you what:
If we didn’t do those 32 rallies
— and it wasn’t easy.
When you’re doing rallies
with 25-,
30,000 people — in Texas,
we had 109,000 people sign up.
We used the Houston Rockets
arena; it holds 22,000.
Tens of thousands were outside.
We were sending notices,
“Please don’t come.”
That’s a little different.
Usually, people are begging.
“Well, yeah,
like can somebody come?”
(laughter)
We never had an empty seat.
Of course, the Washington Post —
a guy named David Weigel —
he wrote an article,
some arena —
Audience:  Booo —
The President:  No,
listen to this.
He wrote an article.
He got there four hours early.
He took pictures
of an empty arena.
He then put out a note —
something to the effect,
“Not very good crowd size,
Mr. President.”
And I never saw it
because I don’t follow the guy.
But thousands of people
that were in that arena
that was packed
with 25,000 people outside
that couldn’t get in —
he got there four
or five hours early
because he doesn’t fly private.
You know.
(laughter)
And maybe it’s because
of the carbon footprint.
You think maybe that’s it?
(laughter)
Maybe. Must be the carbon
footprint.
He just doesn’t want private.
But he got there hours early.
And, you know, the place
hadn’t started taking in people.
They weren’t going
to take them in.
So there were virtually nobody.
And, you know,
whatever it was — 18,000 —
when you have nobody,
it’s a little scary-looking.
So he took pictures.
And you know
who really got even?
Our people.
Because they were incensed.
We had people sitting
on the stairwells.
We had people
sitting in every seat.
I don’t think we’ve had an empty
seat since we announced.
And from the day
we came down the escalator,
I really don’t believe we’ve had
an empty seat at any arena,
at any stadium.
It’s been an incredible thing.
And that’s why I say this has
never, ever happened before,
and now we have to
verify it in 2020
with an even bigger victory.
(applause)
Audience:  Four more years!
Four more years!
The President:  And, by the way,
just to finish that story,
the great Sarah Huckabee
and Mercedes,
who is incredible,
sitting right here —
(applause)
— Mercedes, thank you.
They always say — you know,
they’re good people, right?
Much better than I am.
They always say,
“Don’t bring it up.
Don’t fight. Don’t fight.
Everyone understands.”
I said, “They don’t understand.”
If I don’t explain it, how are
they going to understand?
So remember the arena one,
right? And then it was shown.
And the Washington Post
had to do —
and this particular writer —
had to do a — I thought
he was going to get fired.
I mean, if that were
a conservative,
he would’ve been fired
on the spot.
He would’ve been humiliated
for what he did.
Because it was fake news.
Nobody was in the arena.
There were thousands outside
but they hadn’t opened
the gates yet.
They did the same thing
at our big inauguration speech.
You take a look
at those crowds.
And I watched one of the evening
shows that are ridiculous,
how horrible they are,
how mean — how horrible.
And I watched it by mistake.
(laughter)
And they showed — they showed
from the White House
all the way down.
They showed from the Cap- —
they showed — there were people.
Nobody has ever seen it.
The Capitol down to the
Washington Monument — people.
But I saw pictures
that there were no people.
(laughter)
Those pictures were taken
hours before.
Right? And they always
mention crowd size.
“He talks about crowd size.”
So I’m constantly bugging
Mercedes.
Whenever we have a slow moment,
I say, “Mercedes” — and Sarah —
“show them the pictures.
Show them.
And compare them with
what they put on television.
Those pictures were
taken hours before.”
And remember this also —
not that Obama
would ever do this:
But we had fencing all the way
down to the Washington Monument.
And it was raining
and it was wet,
and the grass was wet.
And women and men — and I
consider them totally equal,
so I’m not going
to say it’s harder.
(laughter)
In fact, it’s probably,
with the men I know,
it’s actually easier for the
women to make the walk, right?
Audience:  No!
The President:  But they had
to walk all the way down.
They had to walk
with high heels, in many cases.
They had to walk all the way
down to the Washington Monument
and then back.
And I looked,
and I made a speech,
and I said, before I got on —
I said to the people
that were sitting next to me,
“I’ve never seen anything
like this. Look at that crowd.”
And it was wide.
Wide.
We had a crowd — I’ve never
seen anything like it.
And I have to live — I have
to live with “crowd size.”
It’s all a phony deal.
But I saw a picture
just the other night
of practically no people.
It was taken hours
before our great day.
That was a great day for us.
That was a great, great day.
People came from all over.
(applause)
So, Sarah said,
and Mercedes said,
“Sir, it doesn’t matter.
Nobody cares.”
I said, “But I care.”
(laughter)
And people care. People care.
So what I’m going to do is
I’ll give it to the great one.
I’ll give it to Mark Levin.
And I’ll give him the picture.
Then I’ll show you
where they showed,
just the other day,
an empty field —
like nobody on it.
And you’ll see the sun.
You know, you can see
it’s very dark,
because the sun is like
starting to rise, right?
(laughter)
And you can have some fun.
You’re going to get
big ratings on your show,
I’ll tell you that.
Sunday night, everybody.
Sunday night.
(applause)
Huh? Ten o’clock, right?
Sunday night at 10 o’clock.
Audience Member:   (Inaudible.)
The President:  (Laughs.)
Thank you.
I knew that, actually.
But thank you.
All right, now let’s get back
to what I’m here for.
(laughter)
And don’t fall asleep.
Don’t fall asleep, right?
Don’t fall asleep.
You know, somebody said,
“Oh, the speech you made, sir,
the State of the Union speech
was incredible.”
(applause)
They said it was incredible.
They said that was so great.
And I said — I said — I did;
I got great reviews,
even from some of the really
bad ones out there.
(laughter)
Of course, by the following
morning,
they had to change because
the head people called up,
“What are you doing?”
(laughter)
A lot of it is not the people
on television, you know.
A lot of it is their bosses —
which someday we’re going to
have to figure out why,
Meadows, why that is.
Because, you know, if you’re
building a great country,
you have the best employment
and unemployment numbers
we’ve ever had.
More people are working today
in the United States
than ever before
in the history of our country.
(applause)
And you say,
why are they upset by that?
Why?
Why are they upset by that?
We’ve slashed 30,000 pages
of job-killing regulations
from the Federal Register.
That’s an all-time record in the
history of the United States,
even by Presidents
there for eight years,
and in one case more.
We passed the largest
package of tax cuts
and reforms
in American history.
(applause)
And we got rid of the individual
mandate,
which was a big deal.
(applause)
Which should lead to the ending
of the disaster
known as Obamacare.
(applause)
It should.
The great state of Texas
has a case,
and it was literally based
on the individual mandate.
Now that it’s gone, I don’t know
how they rule against it.
Now we’ll have to find out.
But that’ll soon be up
in the Supreme Court
of the United States, I hope.
And we’re going to see
what happens.
And then we’re going to get
together with the Democrats
and come up with really
great healthcare, okay?
Really great healthcare.
(applause)
And of the other things we did
in our tax package is ANWR.
Perhaps the largest field
in the world — oil and gas.
(applause)
I got it approved.
And I didn’t want to get it
approved for a certain reason,
because I thought somebody
treated me very badly.
Very badly.
Don’t get that vote very often.
And I said, you know,
I don’t want to get it.
Then I get a call
from a friend of mine,
and he’s in the oil business.
He’s not asking for anything.
He said — but he really
is a knowledgeable guy
when it comes to oil and gas.
He said to me, “Hey” —
and they all call me
“Mr. President.”
I have friends that,
for 35 years,
“Hey, Don, how you doing?
Hey, Donny. I love you, Donny.”
For 35 years. Now they call,
“Mr. President, sir.”
(laughter)
“How are you?”
I have a friend —
a very rich guy —
Richard LeFrak, in New York.
A builder. A good builder.
He calls me all my life,
“Hey, Don, how you doing?”
I’ve known this guy so long —
from kindergarten.
(laughter)
It’s true.
“Hi, Don, how you doing?
How’s everything?”
And now I get a call
the other day,
“Mr. President,
how are you, sir? How are you?”
I said, “Richard, lighten up.
Lighten up.”
(laughter)
“Call me ‘Donald’.”
(applause)
“Richard, call me ‘Donald’.”
You’ve known me for —
I don’t want to say,
because I don’t want my wife
to hear the number.”
(laughter)
But — it’s true.
Actually, that’s true.
That’s actually true.
Richard came up; he said,
“I’ve known your husband
for 65 years.”
I said, “Don’t say that.”
(laughter)
I say, “Say 25, 30.
Don’t say 65 years.”
But I said, “Richard — Richard,
call me ‘Donald’,
like you always do.
Call me ‘Don’.”
“Okay.” “Okay, Don. Okay.”
He gets his breath. “Uh-huh.”
Two minutes later —
“Mr. President…”
(laughter)
That’s called respect
for the office, right?
Maybe that’s a good thing,
right?
(applause)
Many — many of my friends.
And that wasn’t in the script
either, Mark.
(laughter)
But we’re renegotiating,
right now,
horrible trade deals
that we’re cracking down —
and we are really
doing a number —
cracking down
on countries that cheat,
and standing up
for the American worker
for the first time
in many, many decades.
(applause)
Many decades.
Our workers have been
treated horribly.
A country announces
they’re closing their plant
in Michigan
or Pennsylvania or Ohio —
they’re closing.
They’re closing a plant;
they’re going to move to Mexico.
They’re going to move to China.
They’re going to move
someplace else.
They fire all their workers.
And then they sell
their cars, no tax;
just make them in Mexico,
sell them back to here.
No tax, no nothing.
Those days are all gone, folks.
They’re all gone.
(applause)
And in the new deal with Mexico
and Canada, called the USMCA,
it’s very, very hard —
prohibitively hard —
for a company to fire
its 4,000 workers
and move to Mexico
or some other location.
It’s now a very costly —
they can do it,
I guess, if they want.
But it’s costly. It’s painful.
It used to be almost — I said
— I used to —
I’ve been talking
about this for a long time.
I used to say it’s almost like
we’re giving them
an incentive
to leave our country.
Again, I’m for America first.
That wasn’t for America first.
(applause)
And we have great companies
that are now
moving back to our country.
They’re coming back in.
(applause)
And, by the way, you know
I’m building the wall.
We’re finishing the wall.
We got a lot of money.
(applause)
It’s in the thing.
Audience:  Build that wall!
Build that wall!
The President:  But — and there
will be some people in the room
that don’t like this.
We’re down to
3.7 percent unemployment —
the lowest number
in a long time.
But think of this: I got
all these companies moving in.
They need workers.
We have to bring people
into our country to work
these great plants that are
opening up all over the place.
This was not necessarily what I
was saying during the campaign
because I never knew we would be
as successful as we’ve been.
Companies are roaring
back into our country,
and now we want people
to come in.
We need workers to come in,
but they’ve got to
come in legally,
and they’ve got to come in
through merit, merit, merit.
(applause)
Audience:  USA! USA!
USA!
The President:  They’ve got to
come in through merit.
They have to be people
that can help us.
They have to be people that can
love our country,
not hate our country.
We have people in Congress —
right now,
we have people in Congress
that hate our country.
Audience:  Booo —
The President:  And you know
that.
And we can name
every one of them if they want.
They hate our country.
It’s sad. It’s very sad.
When I see some of
the things being made,
the statements being made,
it’s very, very sad.
Very, very — and find out,
how did they do
in their country?
Just ask them, how did they do?
Did they do well?
Were they succeeding?
Just ask that question.
Somebody would say,
“Oh, that’s terrible
that he brings that up.”
But that’s okay, I don’t mind.
I’ll bring it up.
(laughter)
How did they do
in their country?
Not so good. Not so good.
But we need workers.
We have to bring in workers.
One other thing — because
we have a lot of people here
that are important people
in terms of votes.
We have some senators.
We have some congressmen.
When a senator tells us
that he’s a free trader,
so am I. I’m a fair trader.
I’m a free trader.
But when a senator said
we can’t do tariffs,
where we make a fortune,
or at a minimum,
we’re able to use this
tremendous power that I found —
tremendous — old stuff.
Nobody even knew it existed.
I’m able to use it,
at a minimum,
to negotiate great
and fair trade deals.
They wouldn’t even be talking
to us because it’s so one-sided.
Last year,
we lost eight hundred —
this for many years —
almost $800 billion on trade.
It’s not sustainable.
You can’t do that.
And now we’re making
great trade deals.
But when some of the senators —
good people;
I think they’re good people.
I just don’t understand
the thinking.
So I say, India is
a very high-tariff nation.
They charge us a lot.
When we send
a motorcycle to India,
it’s 100 percent tariff.
They charge 100 percent.
When India sends
a motorcycle to us,
we brilliantly
charge them nothing.
So I want a reciprocal tax,
or at least
I want to charge a tax.
(applause)
It’s called a mirror tax,
but it’s a reciprocal tax.
Now, here’s what I don’t
understand: I’ve had
a lot of people —
Lindsey Graham.
I said, Lindsey —
it’s not his thing necessarily.
It’s not the thing
that he’s most adept at.
But he’s adept and he’s smart.
I said, “Lindsey,
if they charge us a hundred,
I’d like a reci-…”
If they charge us,
we charge them.
He goes,
“That makes sense to me.”
(laughter)
And then he gets on
to judiciary and things
that, frankly, he likes
and finds very interesting.
But he’s a smart guy,
and he said — I’ll never forget.
It took me about a minute,
which is a long time.
I did a bad description.
It’s so easy.
They charge 100;
we charge nothing.
Now we have reciprocal,
so it’s 100.
But what happens now, for those
that really think about tariffs
and don’t like tariffs
for whatever reason might be —
and that’s okay.
What’s going to happen is,
in many cases,
instead of 100 and 100,
you’re going to have
zero and zero,
so you won’t have any tariff.
Okay?
(applause)
It’s going to happen.
That’s going to happen.
But you have to — you have
to start working on
some of the senators that say
“I can’t approve this deal.”
I say, “You know what?
I want to just charge India” —
as an example, I’m using it.
But India is a very
high-tariff nation.
I mean, nobody —
nobody knows it
because nobody knows what
they’re doing in Washington.
(laughter)
But India is a very,
very high-tariff nation,
and they charge tremendous —
tremendous numbers.
So they charge 100.
So I say,
“I’m not going to charge 100,
but I’m going to charge
25 percent.”
And I hear this turmoil
in the Senate
because we’re charging 25.
So I call a couple
of the guys up.
I say, “Fellas, listen,
they’re charging us 100
for the exact same product.
I want to charge them 25.”
And I feel so foolish charging
25 because it should be 100.
“But I’m doing 25 only
because of you.
I want to get your support.”
“Sir, that’s not free trade.”
Where do these people come from?
(laughter)
Where do they come from? Where?
Where do they come from?
I need your help.
I need your help —
the voters’ help.
Where do they come from?
So it can only be one of two
or three things.
Number one, I know
they’re very smart people.
I know they are.
And I even like some of them.
(laughter)
But they’re smart.
So we take that
out of the equation.
So even — and I know
they don’t have evil intentions.
And the other thing could be,
I guess, maybe — you know,
these companies
are all owned by people,
and these people
are very generous.
Campaign contributions —
they’re very,
very generous people.
Can that be possible?
I don’t think so. I hope not.
Because we’re talking
about our country.
We can’t allow a country
to charge 100 percent
and we get nothing
for the same exact product.
For one thing,
they don’t respect us.
They think we’re “stupido.”
They don’t respect us.
(laughter)
But let me tell you something:
The world
respects our country again.
(applause)
They respect us.
And America is now booming
like never before.
Other countries
are doing very poorly.
are doing very poorly,
and that makes it even harder
for us to be successful.
Plus, we have a gentleman
that likes raising
interest rates in the Fed.
We have a gentleman
that loves quantitative
tightening in the Fed.
We have a gentleman that likes
a very strong dollar in the Fed.
So with all of those things —
and we want a strong dollar,
but let’s be reasonable.
You understand that.
With all of that,
we’re doing great.
Can you imagine if we left
interest rates where they were?
There’s no inflation,
essentially.
There’s no inflation.
(applause)
Can you imagine if we left
interest rates where they were?
If we didn’t do quantitative
tightening,
taking money out of the market?
If we didn’t do quantitative —
and this would lead
to a little bit lower dollar.
A little bit.
I want a strong dollar,
but I want a dollar that’s going
to be great for our country,
not a dollar that’s so strong
that it is prohibitive for us
to be dealing with other nations
and taking their business.
(applause)
Since the election,
we’ve created a number that
if I would have said
during the campaign,
the fake news just back there
would have said this is crazy.
5.3 million new jobs,
including over,
now, 600,000 beautiful,
brand-new manufacturing jobs
that were never going to
come back to our country.
(applause)
These are jobs that were
never coming back
to our country. Remember?
Not to talk badly about
the other administration,
but if that theory went forward
with Crooked Hillary
winning the election,
instead of being up almost 50
percent with the stock market,
you would have been down
50 percent.
It was heading down.
It was going to be a disaster.
We have nearly 5 million
Americans
that have been lifted
off of food stamps.
Nobody ever thought
that was possible.
(applause)
The unemployment rate
has reached the lowest
in over 51 years.
And African American —
and you’ve heard me say
this many times —
Hispanic American,
Asian American
unemployment rates
are at their
all-time historic lows.
(applause)
And African American income
has reached an all-time high.
So when I’m on the debate stage
with one of these maniacs —
(laughter)
— I mean, trains to Hawaii.
“How do you get to Europe?”
“We haven’t figured
that one out yet.
We don’t use airplanes anymore.”
(laughter)
You saw what I’m doing
in California, right?
They have a fast train.
The fast train goes from
San Francisco to Los Angeles.
It’s over budget by hundreds
of billions of dollars,
so they have a great idea —
the new governor; nice guy.
Yeah, he’s a nice guy.
When I’m with him
face to face, nice.
When he speaks about me,
not so nice.
But face to face,
he loves me.
(laughter)
He called me up. He said,
“You’re a great President.
You’re doing a great job.”
He actually did,
two weeks ago, three weeks.
So he’ll probably deny it,
but check the phone records
at the White House.
Everybody else does.
(laughter)
Check them. Check them.
(applause)
Check them.
Called me up three
or four weeks ago.
I think they need
some forest money,
because honestly, the management
of the forests is very bad
and that’s one
of the problems they have.
I said,
“You got to get those forests.”
We can’t keep spending
billions and billions
and losing hundreds of lives,
more importantly.
Got to clean it up.
It’s called management.
When a tree falls, you can’t let
the environmentalist say
you can’t take that tree out.
It becomes like a matchstick,
that tree.
It hits a flame, it goes up.
The leaves — every once
in a while, you have to remove
the leaves because they are so —
a guy smoking a cigarette,
he throws it away,
he doesn’t mean it.
The thing catches on fire
and we lose 400,000 acres
and people are killed.
You got to have management.
But he called me up
the other day, recently —
let’s say four weeks ago or so.
He said,
“I just want to tell you
you’re a great President
and you’re one of the
smartest people I’ve ever met.”
That’s what he said.
Now, that’s what he said.
Will he admit it?
No, I doubt it.
(laughter)
But that’s what he said.
“And you’re doing a great job.”
And then he did start
talking about,
in all fairness,
additional money for the fire,
which is —
(laughter)
— it’s okay. That’s okay.
We have great talks.
I mean, I like him.
Gavin Newsom. I like him.
Nice guy. But they say things —
you know, politicians,
they say things to your face,
and then you see two days later
they’re giving a news
conference — just like,
where did that guy come from?
Where did he come from?
But everyone in this great
country, right now,
because of our great
new economy, is doing well —
except, of course,
for the Never Trumpers.
But they are on
mouth-to-mouth resuscitation.
(Laughter and applause.)
Mouth to mouth.
They’re hanging in.
A couple of them.
I mean, these guys
have gotten me wrong.
Not only Never Trumpers.
You have Never Trumpers;
you have certain hardline.
They’re basically dishonest
people —
because, look, let’s face it:
Whether you like me or not —
if my name is Smith
instead of Trump,
and if you told him I put in
over 100 federal judges —
it’ll soon be 145 federal judges
and 2 Supreme Court judges.
(applause)
And 17 appellate
division judges.
That we’ve got the best economy
maybe in our history.
That we’ve got
the best employment numbers
and unemployment numbers
in our history.
That we’ve cut more regulations
in two years
than any
President has ever done,
whether it’s for eight
or beyond.
(applause)
That we’ve taken care
of our military with —
(applause)
— $1.7 billion.
Think of that.
Think of what we did.
Think of what we did
with our military.
Think of the numbers
that we have for our military.
We have numbers —
nobody has ever heard
of these numbers before.
And you know, part of
the problem that we have —
because I’m a cost cutter.
But — and you are
all cost cutters.
But we have to take care
of our military. We have to.
(applause)
Seven hundred billions dollars
we spent.
And that was the first year.
And then the second year,
$716 billion.
Now, I have no choice.
I’d like to spend much less.
Obama was spending much less but
our military was being depleted.
He was fighting in endless wars;
they’d never end.
And, by the way, as of probably
today or tomorrow,
we will actually
have 100 percent
of the caliphate in Syria.
One hundred percent.
(applause)
And we’ll leave
a small group of guys and gals.
But we want to bring
our people back home.
We want to bring
It’s time.
Been in these wars.
We were going to be in Syria
for four months.
We ended up five years.
This fighting —
they just like to fight.
We want to fix our country.
We want to fix our bridges,
our highways,
our roads, our schools.
We want to fix our country up.
It’s time.
(applause)
But I was told by a general,
who I had to fire — I said,
“General, how long before we get
100 percent of the caliphate?”
He said, “Sir, two years.”
I said, “I can’t
take it two years.”
And then I flew to Iraq;
first time I left
the White House —
because I stayed in the White
House for months and months
because I wanted the Democrats
to get back from their vacations
from Hawaii
and these other places.
(laughter)
And I figured it would look good
if I stayed in the White House
so that you people all love me
and vote for me, okay?
I figured it would look good.
(Laughter and applause.)
So I stayed in the White House.
And I’ll tell you what:
I was there — I told my wife,
“Go to Florida.
Enjoy your Christmas.”
I stayed for Thanksgiving.
I said — I mean, I was in
the White House for a long time.
Months. Months.
I had cabin fever
in the White House.
(laughter)
But if you’ve got to
have cabin fever,
that’s the place
to do it, okay?
(laughter)
But I was there, I don’t know,
for a number of months,
through Christmas.
I spent my New Year’s
all by myself.
(laughter)
Audience:  Aww —
The President:  Don’t cry. All —
it was me and about 500 men and
women outside with machine guns.
(laughter)
I never saw so many
beautiful-looking machine guns.
I’d look at that equipment
and I’d say, “Man…”
They sit in the trees.
They sit on the lawn.
I told people,
“I’m in this mess” —
you know, people don’t know
how big the White House.
First of all,
it’s one of the most
beautiful places in the world.
It’s really — I made
a lot of money with luxury.
(applause)
This building is — 1799 —
which, of course,
when President Xi comes,
I say “1799,” like it’s old.
To him, that’s like
a brand-new house in China.
(laughter)
In China, they go back —
they go back 8,000 years.
So that’s — that’s like a new —
that’s like a new residence.
But I sat in the White House
for months and months,
except I took a day off.
I flew to a lovely place
called Iraq,
and I flew at night
and I got there at night.
And I said to myself,
this is interesting,
because they say, “Sir,
all of the lights in the plane,
sir, are going off.”
I say, “Why?”
(laughter)
“Because we’re getting ready
to land.”
We’re an hour out.
I said, “What about the shades?”
“Well, we want it better
than that.
May be like
(inaudible).
So we turned the lights off,
put the shades down.
This is a big seven forty —
Air Force One.
And we’re landing,
and I go up and I look.
And I’ve landed;
I like to sit with pilots.
I respect people that know
what they’re doing,
and these are the best
in the world. I really do.
(applause)
These are the best in the world.
And the pilot says, “Sir,
we’re landing in approximately
one and a half minutes.”
I say, “But there’s no runway.”
“No, sir, the runway
is right up there, sir.”
I say, “I don’t see it.”
I have pretty good vision.
(laughter)
At least for my age
I have good vision.
(laughter)
I guess for my age
I have great vision.
But I don’t have vision
like a 35-year-old captain.
He said, “No,
it’s right up there.”
I said, “I’m sorry, Captain,
how about this:
Should we lift off
and try it again?
Captain, there’s no runway.”
Anyway — he sits right up there
and we land.
There’s practically not lights.
These are little pin spots.
And I said, think of this:
We spent $7 trillion
in the Middle East
and we can’t land
with the lights on —
(laughter)
— 20 years later. How bad is it?
No, seriously,
how bad is it?
(applause)
How bad is it?
Seven trillion dollars and we
have to fly in with no lights.
But I met some
incredible people.
I met some incredible
people — generals.
One of them came from Syria —
the operation in Syria.
And I was upset
with my generals
because they weren’t
getting it finished.
I want the job done.
I want to bring
our people back home.
(applause)
It’s not fair.
And this is why I flew.
So I met generals I didn’t know.
General one, general two,
general three.
I mean, these generals —
there’s no person in Hollywood
that could play the role.
These guys
are like perfect people.
I said, “What’s your name?
“Sir, my name is Raisin.”
What the hell kind of a name?
(laughter)
I said, “Raisin,
like the fruit?”
He goes, “Yes, sir, Raisin.”
“What’s your last name?”
“Caine. Raisin Caine.”
(laughter)
I said, “You got
to be kidding me.”
(applause)
It’s true. Raisin Caine.
I just made him a big star.
(laughter)
Just like I did with Mattis
when I said,
“We’re going to give you
a new nickname,
because ‘Chaos’ is not
a good nickname.”
So we changed his name.
Called him “Mad Dog.”
But it wasn’t working too well.
Mad Dog wasn’t working too well.
So what happened
is I flew to Iraq.
I wanted to meet the people
on the site,
because I learn more
sometimes from soldiers,
what’s going on,
than I do from generals.
I do. I hate to say it.
And I tell that
to the generals all the time.
(applause)
But I didn’t have to go there.
I didn’t have to go there.
Because I meet —
and I land in this airport,
the most incredible thing.
We must have spent
$3 billion building it.
It’s one of the reasons I don’t
want to leave Iraq so fast.
I said, “Well, how do we leave
this thing?”
So I have Raisin Caine
and three other generals,
colonels, sergeants.
And I said, “Bring the cameras.
I’m going to make a movie.
This is the most
incredible thing.”
(laughter)
And I said to the generals,
“Listen, we got to get out.
I want to know why is it going
to take two years to knock off
2 or 3 or 4 percent,
which is what we had left.”
“It won’t, sir.” And I said,
“Tell me why it won’t.”
“It won’t, sir.
If we attack them
in a different manner,
we can do it much faster.”
“Okay, General Raisin Caine,
how fast can” —
“Sir, we can have it
totally finished in one week.”
I said, “One week?
I was told two years.”
(laughter)
One week?
“That’s right, sir.
We’re only hitting them
from a temporary base in Syria.
But if you gave us permission,
we could hit them from the back,
from the side, from all over —
from the base that you’re
right on, right now, sir.
They won’t know
what the hell hit them.”
(applause)
“They won’t know what the hell
hit them, sir.”
And I said, “Why didn’t
my other generals tell me that?
Why didn’t they tell me that?”
I said,
“Did you tell them that?”
“Not our place to say it, sir.
They come in from Washington,
sir. We have to take orders.
You’re the first one
to ask us our opinion.”
(applause)
It’s true. It’s true. True.
True.
So I went back and I said,
“I’m going to get back
to you soon, Raisin.
I think you’re great.”
(laughter)
“I like you, Raisin Caine.”
But I did say — I said,
“Well, hey, listen,
we’re in Iraq.
Isn’t that very far away from…”
“I was here in a very short
time, sir. I flew right in.”
Of course, he’s taking a plane
that goes 2,000 miles an hour,
you know.
But incredible. What you learn
from being on the site —
my father was a builder.
He always used to say,
“Nobody ever got rich
by sitting behind their desk.”
(applause)
It’s true. It’s true.
He’d say,
“You got to be on this site.
You got to be
with the contractors.
You got to see
if they’re ripping you off.
You’ve got to collect every nail
that’s dropped,
every piece of wood.
You can sell it.
You got to be on the site.
You got to see
while they’re building,
while they’re
under construction,
is that wall straight
or if it’s crooked.
And you have to fix it
before they build it,
not after they build it,
when you rip everything down.”
(applause)
True.
You don’t get rich
by sitting behind a desk.
So I didn’t want to do that.
And I’m in the White House
and I was lonely.
I said,
“Let’s go to Iraq.”
(laughter)
And I had a hell
of a meeting in Iraq.
And I’ll tell you,
those generals —
not just Raisin Caine,
General Caine.
Those generals were great.
They were great.
They knew their stuff.
They were gung-ho.
And it is true — I mean,
you talk central casting.
These guys — you couldn’t —
I mean, it’s incredible.
They had a master sergeant.
I could take him right now,
bring him to Hollywood,
make a military movie,
and he’s the star of the movie.
That happened once before,
you know.
That did happen once before.
Remember?
They brought a man in —
a sergeant, a drill sergeant —
to teach some actor
how to be a drill sergeant.
The drill sergeant
was so incredible
that he ended up
starring in the movie,
and he should have gotten
the Academy Award,
by the way, but he didn’t.
That’s because
Hollywood discriminates
against our people.
(applause)
You know the movie
I’m talking about, right?
What was that movie?
You know the movie.
But while we’re making
great strides,
and our country
is doing as well —
and maybe, in many ways, better
than it’s ever done before —
Democrat lawmakers are now
embracing socialism.
They want to replace
individual rights
with total
government domination.
Audience:  Booo —
The President:  Just this week,
more than 100 Democrats
in Congress
signed up for a socialist
takeover of American healthcare.
Their radical
government-run plan —
if you call it that — would lead
to colossal tax increases —
increases like
you’ve never seen before
— and take away private coverage
from over 180 million Americans.
Audience:  No!
The President:  And we have some
great private coverage,
and we’ve initiated
some incredible plans,
like the new cooperative plan,
where you get better insurance
than Obamacare
for a fraction of the cost.
But perhaps nothing
is more extreme
than the Democrats’ plan
to completely
takeover American energy
and completely destroy
America’s economy
through their new $100
trillion Green New Deal.
Audience:  Booo —
The President:  Under
the Green New Deal —
which somebody described
as a high school term paper
written by a poor student —
(laughter and applause)
— it’s true. It’s true.
Who would believe it?
It so — it’s so bad.
But I don’t —
I’ll be honest with you, folks.
I said — you know, it’s
Saturday morning, and I said,
“Matt, should we do a little
more, like, spend time?”
He said, “Yeah,
would you do that?”
By the way, everybody okay?
(applause)
I haven’t seen anybody leaving.
I haven’t seen anybody.
I know one thing: If Mark Levin
gets up and leaves,
I’ll finish very quickly,
because then I know.
(laughter)
But I haven’t seen anyone
leaving.
Nobody has left.
I watch those doors.
Because a lot of times —
a lot of times —
well, one time,
the press said people left.
Yeah, you know where they went?
To the bathroom.
And then they came back.
(laughter)
Two people.
(applause)
They showed two empty seats
in a stadium of 19,000.
They showed two empty seats.
The people left right
in front of me, and I said,
“Oh, man, maybe this isn’t
a good job I’m doing.”
Then they came back.
They went to the bathroom.
(laughter)
And a certain fake news deal
showed a picture
on the front page
of these two empty seats.
They said Trump had empty seats.
We never have empty seats.
The Green New Deal would
completely abolish
the American oil,
natural gas, coal,
and nuclear power industries,
of which we’re now
the leader in the world.
We’re the biggest now
in the world
because of moves that I’ve made.
(applause)
Happened over the last
two years, by the way.
And we’re trying to speed up
pipelines in Texas,
which would have taken 15 years.
We think we’re almost very close
to getting them approved.
When that happens,
we’ll go probably another 30
to 40 percent.
We need pipeline approval.
We’re going to have it
very quickly.
It would have taken —
it was going to be a 14-
to 15-year process.
We should have it done.
We’ll pick up 30
to 40 percent more.
(applause)
Their plan would remove
every gas-powered car
from American roads.
Oh, that’s not so bad.
They want you to have one car
instead of two,
and it should be electric, okay?
So tell people, no more cars.
No more cars.
I think the auto industry
is not going to do
too well under this plan.
What do you think, Meadows?
How is this?
Will the auto industry be good?
I don’t think so.
It’s not looking good.
I think maybe —
maybe you’re going to see some
bad stock prices if that passes.
It would end air travel.
But you’ll get on a train,
don’t worry about it.
You just have to cross off
about 95 percent of the world.
And it would force
the destruction or renovation
of virtually every existing
structure in the United States.
New York City would have
to rip down buildings
and rebuild them again.
I don’t think so.
This is the craziest plan,
and yet I see senators
that are there
for 20 years — white hair.
See, I don’t have white hair.
(Laughter and applause.)
I don’t have white hair.
No, I see these white-haired,
longtime senators
standing behind
this young woman,
and she’s ranting
and raving like a lunatic.
(laughter)
And these senators — these
senators: “Yes, I agree
with this.
Yes, I agree.”
The crazy female senator
from the state of Ohio,
the state of Hawaii.
Right?
She’s like —
she’s like a crazed person.
What she said about men
is so bad.
But she’s standing
in the hallway.
And she didn’t know
too much about the plan
because she’s — you know,
she can’t understand that plan.
(laughter)
Which probably makes her smart,
actually.
Now, this is the senator
from Hawaii,
and they’re saying to her,
“What do you think?
Well, I don’t know how people
are going to get to Hawaii,
but I’m in favor
of the plan.”
(Laughter and applause.)
I don’t get it.
I don’t get it. I don’t get it.
So she’s in favor of the plan,
but you won’t be able
to get to —
well, we can take boats,
I guess. We’ll go back to boats.
This is the new Democrat
platform for the —
and I don’t want to
talk them out of it.
I don’t. I don’t.
I swear I don’t.
This is a killer.
I got to get off this subject.
I want them
to embrace this plan.
I want them to go
and sell this plan.
I just want to be the Republican
that runs against them for that.
(applause)
I’m going to regret this speech.
This speech should have been
delivered one year from now,
not now, damn it.
(laughter)
Because they’re going to
grab out together,
and they’re going to say,
“You know, this guy
is really laying for us.”
I should’ve saved the Pocahontas
thing for another year.
(laughter)
Because I’ve destroyed
her political career,
and now I won’t get a chance
to run against her,
and I would’ve loved it.
(laughter)
We got to — you know,
I don’t want to knock out
all of the good stuff
and end up with somebody
that’s actually got talent.
That would be terrible.
(Laughter and applause.)
So I do like the Green New Deal.
(laughter)
I respect it greatly.
It should be part
of the dialogue
of the next election.
(Laughter and applause.)
And I think it has
tremendous promise
and tremendous potential
for the future of our country.
Socialism is not about
the environment.
It’s not about justice.
It’s not about virtue.
Socialism is about
only one thing.
It’s called “power
for the ruling class.”
That’s what it is.
(applause)
Look at what’s happening
in Venezuela
and so many other places.
All of us are here today
because we know that the future
does not belong to those
who believe in socialism.
(applause)
And I heard, yesterday,
a great speech from our
Vice President Mike Pence,
talking about
this very subject —
(applause)
— and talking about it
beautifully.
(applause)
The future belongs to those
who believe in freedom.
I have said it before
and I’ll say it again:
America will never be
a socialist country — ever.
(applause)
Audience:  USA! USA!
USA!
The President:  Young Americans
— I love young Americans.
Speaking of young Americans —
Candace, stand up.
(applause)
Candace is getting married.
Stand up.
You’ve been incredible.
Thank you.
Your whole group has been great.
You’re getting married.
Seems like a nice guy to me.
(laughter)
Congratulations.
You’ve been so great.
Thank you very much, Candace.
Thanks.
(applause)
And, Charlie, what a job
you’re doing.
Where’s Charlie?
Where is Charlie Kirk?
Because he has done
an incredible job.
Thank you very much, Charlie.
(applause)
But young Americans like you
are leading the revival of
American liberty, sovereignty,
and self-determination
in the face
of left-wing intolerance.
The anger — the unbelievable
anger — I see it every day.
Fortunately, for you,
it’s mostly pointed at me.
(laughter)
You have the courage to speak
the truth, to do what is right,
and to fight for what you
believe, and keep doing it.
(applause)
We reject oppressive speech
codes, censorship,
political correctness,
and every other attempt
by the hard left
to stop people from challenging
ridiculous and dangerous ideas.
These ideas are dangerous.
(applause)
Instead, we believe
in free speech,
including online
and including on campus.
And, by the way, there’s
a young gentleman with us today.
(applause)
There’s a young gentleman.
I turned on my television
the other day,
and I saw somebody that was
violently punched in the face.
Violently punched.
And I said that’s disgusting.
By a bully I’d like
to do a lot of things.
But, of course,
we would never do that.
Because if I ever said violence,
they would say,
“Donald Trump attacked.”
No, no, no. Just for the media:
I’m sure he’s
a lovely young man;
just had
a little temper tantrum.
(laughter)
I’ve been there before
with those people.
I don’t want to do it again.
So, the man’s name
is Hayden Williams.
(applause)
Where’s Hayden? Where is he?
Where is he?
Hayden, come up here.
(applause)
Come up here.
Williams:  Thank you. Thank you.
So, at the Leadership Institute,
we’re committed to making
campuses great again.
And I thank you so much
for bringing me up here
to let me speak.
It’s great — it’s great that
I’m being recognized,
and — but there’s so many
conservative students
across the country who are
facing discrimination,
harassment, and worse, if they
dare to speak up on campus.
So I’m glad that we could —
we could, you know,
bring this to the forefront.
And I’d just like to say,
you know,
if these socialist progressives
had their way,
they would put our Constitution
through the paper shredder
in a heartbeat.
So, you know,
it’s as important now
than ever the work at Leadership
Institute and Campus Reform
— you know, exposing these
liberal abuses to the public —
(applause)
— it’s as important now as ever.
And these students —
these students do it
because they have a love
of our nation and freedom,
and frankly, a love for you,
Mr. President.
So if you keep defending us,
we’ll keep defending you.
(applause)
The President:  Thank you.
Williams:  Thank you.
(applause)
The President:  Stay here
for a second.
So, here’s the one thing.
I was going to call him,
but I don’t have to now.
I see him here.
But here’s the one thing:
I learned a number of things.
First of all,
he can take a punch.
If Muhammad Ali could take
a punch, he can take a punch.
(laughter)
Because you weren’t going to
go down no matter how —
that was a hell of a hard punch.
He was a strong guy.
But you know what? You’ve got
yourself a great lawyer.
I know your lawyer.
She is a great lawyer.
Just tell her to do me a favor:
Sue him.
But he’s probably got nothing,
but sue him forever.
But sue the college,
the university.
(applause)
And maybe sue the state.
Ladies and gentlemen,
he took a hard punch
in the face for all of us.
Remember that.
He took a punch for all of us.
And we can never
allow that to happen.
And here is, in closing with
Hayden — here’s the good news:
He is going to be
a very wealthy young man.
That’s okay.
(Laughter and applause.)
Go get ’em, Hayden.
Today I’m proud to announce
that I will be very soon
signing an executive order
requiring colleges
and universities
to support free speech —
(applause)
— if they want
federal research dollars.
Audience:  USA!
USA! USA!
The President:  If they want
our dollars,
and we give it to them
by the billions,
they’ve got to allow
people like Hayden
and many other
great young people,
and old people, to speak.
(applause)
Free speech.
And if they don’t,
it will be very costly.
That’ll be signed very soon.
Every day,
we’re restoring common sense
and the timeless values
that unite us all.
We believe in the Constitution
and the rule of law.
We believe in the
First Amendment right.
And we believe
in religious liberty.
(applause)
And we believe strongly
in the Second Amendment
and the right
to keep and bear arms —
(applause)
— which is under siege, folks.
They have a lot of plans.
It’s under siege.
Be careful.
But I’ll protect you, I promise
you that. I’ll protect you.
(applause)
Because it all has to come
through my office.
And we hopefully are going
to be here for six more years,
so you’re in good shape.
(applause)
We believe in
the American Dream,
not in the socialist nightmare.
And we believe in the words
of our national motto:
In God We Trust.
(applause)
Every day, my presidency
will defend American families.
We will defend
America’s workers —
our great,
great cherished workers —
that now we’re taking care of.
They’re not losing their jobs.
We’re creating those jobs.
We’re not letting
those companies
destroy their lives anymore.
We will defend
the American way of life,
and we will always
defend America’s borders.
Because without borders,
as I’ve said many times before,
we don’t have a country.
(applause)
The lawless chaos
on our southern border
provides a lucrative cash
flow to some of the most
dangerous criminal organizations
on the planet.
Deadly cartels constantly —
daily, hourly —
violate our borders
to flood our cities with drugs
that kill thousands
and thousands
of our citizens violently.
What are these people
talking about
when they talk
about the border?
“Keep it open.” Keep what open?
Have you been there?
Have you seen? I just got back.
I’ve been there many times.
I see what’s happening.
I don’t like it.
But I have to tell you,
our Border Patrol,
our ICE agents,
our law enforcement,
the job they do —
(applause)
— and they don’t have the backup
of a wall, in many cases —
the job they do is incredible.
These ruthless cartels terrorize
innocent communities
on both sides of the border
and spread instability
throughout our hemisphere.
When I was there two weeks ago,
26 people were killed
very close to where I was,
on the Rio Grande.
Sounds nice, right?
The Rio Grande.
Rough. Rough stuff.
Twenty-six people were killed,
and they were buried right near
where I was standing.
And the paper
doesn’t write about it.
The news doesn’t
write about it.
In the last two years alone,
ICE officers made
266,000 arrests.
Think of what that means.
Think of that — arrests.
I’m not talking
about people coming in.
I’m talking they went out
and arrested 266,000 people
who have criminal records and,
in some cases, for murder.
Who the hell wants to do that?
Thank God they’re doing it
because I don’t want to do it.
It’s dangerous.
(applause)
It’s hard.
But they love our country,
and they’re tough people,
but they love our country.
Including those charged
or convicted
of approximately
100,000 assaults,
30,000 sex crimes,
25,000 burglaries,
4,000 kidnappings,
and 4,000 violent murders.
These are people that
ICE is going in and getting,
and either putting in jail
or ideally
bringing them back
to other countries
and letting them put in jail,
because we don’t want them.
We don’t want to have to pay
for them for 50 years.
You want them to pay a price,
but we don’t want to have to pay
for them for 50 years.
And all the nonsense
you hear about
“the people that come
in illegally are far better
than the people we have” —
it’s not true, folks.
Okay? It’s false.
It’s false propaganda.
(applause)
Right?
One recent study from FAIR —
F-A-I-R —
found that illegal aliens
are incarcerated at three times
the rate of legal residents.
Those are the numbers.
And if you look at prison
population in federal prisons,
these federal prisons are —
the number is staggering.
The number of illegals —
far, far, far greater than any
proportion of our population.
But you don’t hear that;
you hear like these people
are the greatest people
in the world.
Just ask the Angel Moms
how good are there.
Those great Angel Moms who were
treated so badly — so badly.
(applause)
Incredible people.
But the simple reality is that
every crime
committed by an illegal
immigrant is a crime
that should never have happened
in the first place.
(applause)
The border crisis is also
a heartbreaking
humanitarian tragedy.
Vicious coyotes, smugglers,
and human traffickers prey
upon innocent women
and children.
One in three women
is sexually assaulted
on the dangerous journey north.
When I ran for president,
my first speech,
I mentioned the word “rape.”
The press went after me;
I couldn’t believe it.
I said, “Will it be like
this always?”
The answer was yes.
It even got worse.
From day one,
I mention the word “rape.”
If you look at that speech,
that was so innocent
compared to
what’s really happening.
That was a very innocent speech
compared to the real facts.
Illegal immigration
is not compassionate.
It’s inhumane,
unjust, and cruel.
(applause)
The media fights me on this,
but I say it:
Mothers who love
their daughters,
when their daughters
are getting ready
to make that 2,000-mile trek
up through Mexico —
and frankly, I wish Mexico
would stop them
at their northern border,
at our —
(applause)
— I wish Mexico would stop them.
Because you know,
they have a border.
They call it
their southern border.
It’s 2,000 miles down
from our southern border.
I wish Mexico
would stop them.
But they have
their own difficulties.
Frankly, I understand that.
We’re working along well
with them.
And they are doing a lot
of things to help us with asylum
and other elements
of what we’re doing.
But mothers, who love
their daughters,
give them massive amounts
of birth control pills
because they know their
daughters are going to be raped
on the way up
to our southern border.
Think of that.
True story, told to me
by the Border Patrol.
So true and so sad.
Think of how evil that is.
Think of how bad it is.
Those caravans —
you look at those caravans,
and some are phenomenal people.
But in those caravans
you have stone-cold killers.
You had the interview done
by some innocent person
who I think is
actually back there now.
“And what is it
that you want asylum for?
Why are you coming to America?”
“Uh, murder.”
She goes, “What?” “Murder.”
I mean, what’s going on
is incredible.
And when those caravans
are formed,
do you think those countries
that we used
to give a lot of money to —
I’ve cut it way back.
(applause)
Guatemala, Honduras,
El Salvador.
Do you think they’re giving us,
as we say, their best
and their finest?
“Oh, let’s send our best people
up to America.
Let’s have our best people
go in the caravan
so we can give America
our greatest people.”
No, no, no, no. They give us
some very bad people.
People with big,
long crime records.
People with tremendous violence
in their past.
Murderers, killers,
drug dealers, human traffickers.
They want to keep their good
people because they’re smart.
It’s so sad to see
how stupid we’ve been.
Border Patrol recently reported
apprehending
7,000 unlawful migrants
in a single week
on just one part
of the Texas border,
a couple of weeks ago.
Our immigration system
is stretched
far beyond
the breaking point.
To confront this national
security crisis,
last month I declared
a national emergency.
A national emergency.
(applause)
And when I see these people —
and they’re good people —
some senators, mostly —
I tell you, the House
has been fantastic.
The House — you know,
backing we’ve had
from the House has really been —
I’m talking about in the last
short period of time.
There’s a lot of spirit
in the House,
and I think in the Senate too,
but we’re going to have to see
because we have
a vote coming up.
And a lot of people
talk about precedent.
Precedent.
That if we do this,
the Democrats will use
national emergency powers
for something
that we don’t want.
They’re going to
do that anyway, folks.
The best way to stop
that is to make sure
that I win the election.
That’s the best way
to stop that.
(applause)
They’re going to do it anyway.
They’ll do it anyway.
I watch — good people,
they’re friends of mine,
“We’re very concerned
with setting precedent.”
That’s “precedent”
not “president.”
(laughter)
Precedent. “We’re very concerned
about setting precedent.”
I’m very concerned with having
murderers and drug traffickers,
and drugs and drug cartels,
pouring into our country.
That’s what I’m concerned about.
(applause)
And the Democrats, they’re going
to do whatever they do
if they get into power,
and it won’t have
a damn thing to do
with whether or not we approve
our national emergency.
Because let me tell you —
they don’t like it
when I say it —
but we are being invaded.
We’re being invaded by drugs,
by people, by criminals.
And we have to stop it.
And we want people to come in,
as I said before,
but they have to come in
legally and with merit.
(applause)
Previous presidents have used
their national emergency power
to promote
democratic elections in Belarus,
to ensure political stability
in Burundi,
and to defend
the sovereignty of Lebanon.
And you know what? That’s okay.
In Lebanon — it’s good.
Fine. Use it.
But we need it right here
in our country.
We have to use it
for our country.
Many emergency declarations
have been used
to protect people in faraway
nations and distant lands.
Now we are protecting,
finally, our people.
You. Our people.
(applause)
And we are proudly standing
with the heroes
of ICE and Border Patrol
and law enforcement.
(applause)
Illegal immigration is also
deeply unfair
to American workers
and taxpayers,
including millions and millions
of hardworking legal immigrants.
If you care about
helping immigrants
and care
about their success,
if you care about
reducing poverty
and raising living standards,
then you must support
a safe, strong,
and very, very secure border.
We need an immigration policy
that helps all Americans thrive,
flourish, prosper.
We need an immigration policy
that’s going to be great
for our corporations
and our great companies.
We need an immigration policy
where people coming
into our country
can love our country
and love our fellow citizens.
(applause)
And this includes shutting down
sanctuary cities.
(applause)
And we want to end
catch-and-release.
We catch them, we realize
they’re a criminal,
and we have to release them.
Think of this:
They come onto our land,
they put one foot on our land.
We now have to take them
through a massive court trial.
Who does this?
Other countries say,
“Get the hell out of here.”
We have to take them
through court.
So we catch them.
We talk to them.
If they’re criminals, or if
they’re not, we release them.
We say, “Come back for a hearing
in front of a judge.”
You know how many judges
you need to do this?
We have 900,000 people
backlogged.
That’s the good news.
The bad news? Nobody shows up.
Three percent of the people
come back for a trial.
It’s insane.
Not my fault I inherited
this mess, but we’re fixing it.
(applause)
We have to end chain migration,
and we have to cancel
the visa lottery.
Every American,
no matter where they’re born,
will benefit from the creation
of a lawful immigration system.
It is such —
you talk about an emergency.
Our immigration system
is so broken, folks.
It’s so broken.
It’s so sad to see.
It’s incompetent. It’s laughed
at all over the world.
We have people pouring in
from not just
the southern border in Mexico.
From China.
They have a baby on our land.
The baby becomes a citizen.
“Welcome to the United States”
for hopefully 90 years. Okay?
And then the parents
come in with the baby
because the baby is a citizen.
This is like crazy.
They used to call it
“anchor babies”
but they don’t use
that term anymore
because it doesn’t sound nice.
Our laws are so crazy.
But one by one,
we’re finding ways.
You know,
they call them loopholes.
A lot of our laws —
loopholes.
Well, I’m finding loopholes
to get around the loophole.
Okay?
(Laughter and applause.)
Because our Congress can’t act.
They can’t act.
They just can’t act.
The Democrats in Congress
don’t want to touch any of it.
Visa lottery — that’s where
they put in the names;
they put it in a lottery,
and you pick,
“Oh, here’s a wonderful person.
Wonderful.”
You know,
he killed four people.
“Here’s — here’s
another wonderful.”
(laughter)
And then they get in and we say,
“Gee, that person just
came into our country.
He just robbed a store
and killed somebody.”
How is that possible?
Because they send us
the people they don’t want.
(applause)
The biggest form of subsidy
we give to other nations.
Immigration systems
that prioritize the admission
of those who can support
themselves financially
and contribute.
We want people
that can help themselves,
that can support themselves.
We have people coming in.
We support them from the day
they come in
until the day they die.
We can’t do that as a country.
We can’t afford to do that
as a country.
(applause)
Sadly, on immigration
and so many other issues,
Democrat lawmakers have
totally abandoned
the American mainstream.
But that’s going to be good
for us in 2020.
They’re embracing open borders,
socialism,
and extreme
late-term abortion.
Audience:  Booo —
The President:  Weeks ago,
lawmakers in New York cheered
as they passed legislation
to allow babies
to be ripped
from the womb of their mother
right up
to the very moment of death.
Then, in an act
and a statement,
the likes of which I don’t think
I’ve ever heard, in Virginia,
the governor —
a Democrat —
stated that he would
allow babies to be born,
to be born outside.
He would wrap them.
He would take care of them.
And then he’ll talk
to the mother and the father
as to what to be done.
And if they didn’t
want the child,
who is now outside of the womb —
long outside of the womb —
they will execute
the baby after birth.
Audience:  Booo —
The President:  They will
execute the baby after birth.
And that’s one many people
have never even heard of
or thought about.
This is a radical agenda
by the Democrats.
And when you put something up,
as was just put up
before the Senate,
everybody on the Democrat
side votes for it.
By the way,
I have to say one thing:
They’re lousy politicians
and they have lousy policy.
They have policy I could
never sell if I wanted to.
But — but — big but —
they always stick together.
And the Republicans
don’t remember that.
(applause)
Remember that.
They always stick together.
They vote in blocs.
They have 47.
We had a tremendous victory.
We were given no credit.
I can’t go and campaign for all
of the people in the House.
Too many. And guys like Meadows
wins by so many points
he doesn’t need any help.
He doesn’t need it.
I say,
“Mark, do you need any help?”
“No, I’m okay.”
(laughter)
He’ll win by 30, 35.
They’re okay.
These guys —
you know a funny thing?
The ones that love Trump,
the ones that are really
the Trumpers
— like Meadows, Jordan,
Gates, so many of them.
I don’t want to —
I could just name so many.
They’re the ones
that win with that.
I mean, it’s like they don’t
even have an election.
It’s the ones that sort of —
they’re a little shy
about embracing what we’re
all about, they get clobbered.
They get clobbered.
Take a look.
Those are the ones
that get clobbered.
But the good news is they’re all
starting to find that out.
Just this week, Senate Democrats
opposed legislation to prevent
the killing of newborn infant
children who survive abortions.
Virtually every Democrat
voted against protecting
these precious babies.
Every one. They vote in groups.
And we did have that
great victory. We won for 51.
And two that we didn’t
like got out.
They said they retired.
They didn’t retire.
They were retired.
(applause)
They said, “These two senators
have decided to retire.”
No, no, no.
They retired because they had
like very little support.
Like how about 5 percent?
Any percent.
No, we did great. We had 53
we picked up in the Senate.
They were going to win
the Senate, remember?
And I’ll tell you, folks,
I worked hard.
I did 32 big, fat rallies.
(applause)
And those rallies brought us
to a tremendous Senate victory
so that we can continue onward
with our judges
and our approvals.
And the fake news back there,
they love to say
“Donald Trump suffered
a big defeat.”
First of all,
we won the Senate,
which, frankly, judges —
you know, I hate to say it:
In all due respect for us,
the Senate, far more important.
I really worked hard.
But think of it.
We won the Senate
and we had this,
like, tremendous victory.
We get no credit at all.
Wait until you see what happens.
They say, “Donald Trump
suffered a humiliating defeat.”
I said,
“I wasn’t running.”
(laughter)
And one of the commentators —
and I appreciate it —
one of the shows where they were
saying how I suffered a defeat,
this commentator said,
“Excuse me, he didn’t run.”
You know, not all our candidates
were exactly great.
Let’s face it. You know,
you can only do so much.
But wait until you see
what’s happening when I do run.
And what they don’t say is —
governor of Ohio, great guy.
Mike. Mike.
Mike was down six.
He won by seven with one day.
Right?
(applause)
He was down by six.
One day into the election,
I went out, I campaigned,
worked hard, made a speech.
Jim Jordan was there.
Everybody was there.
It was a fantastic crowd
like this. Like this.
And all the people
in the other ballrooms
that are waiting for us.
And he ended up winning.
He was down by six;
he won by seven.
One day.
(applause)
Then we have Georgia —
the governor of Georgia.
Great guy. Where’s Georgia?
Great guy.
He was losing
in the primary by 10.
I got a call from David
Perdue and Sonny Perdue —
two great guys.
“Could you endorse him?”
I said, “Let me check.”
And I checked him.
He was a Trumper
before Trump was a Trumper.
(laughter)
And I said, “I love this guy.”
He’s down by 10. He won by 40.
(applause)
Can you believe that?
I endorsed him, Mark.
He won by 40.
Then he had a tough race
against the new star
of the Democrat Party —
not Democratic.
It’s Democrat.
We have to do that.
You know, it sounds prettier
when we use “Democratic.”
I even like —
I hate to say in the speech,
the “Democrat Party”
because it doesn’t sound good.
But that’s all the more reason
I use it, because it doesn’t.
(laughter)
They should change it
because it sounds much better.
Rhetorically, it’s much better.
Much better.
But then, he had an election
against their star
who followed me after
the State of the Union Address.
I didn’t think she was great.
But she’s their star.
And who showed up?
Oprah Winfrey, Michelle Obama,
and President Obama.
Audience:  Booo —
The President:  And they
campaigned for her,
and they worked so hard.
And all our man had was Trump.
(laughter)
And we kicked their ass.
(applause)
True.
We had a rally at the airport,
where 55,000 people
showed up to the airport.
It was one hangar.
They had three other hangars
that were full.
They went so far back.
The problem was they gave
the press, like these guys —
they gave the press
too good a location
because the people behind them
couldn’t see properly.
I was so angry.
But we had
55,000 people show up.
I said, “You’re going
to win the election.”
He won the election.
He won it fairly easily,
against their star.
And now David Perdue is going
to win for senator in 2020.
(applause)
And then — and then we had
Florida, and many others.
(applause)
And we have a candidate,
Ron DeSantis —
(applause)
— a friend.
A friend of many of us
in this room.
But nobody knew he was running.
He was running against,
in the primary,
somebody that was easily
going to win.
He was scheduled to be
the next governor of Florida.
But Ron has been great to me
on the witch hunt.
He’s been a defender of me
against these
phony charges of Russia.
Russia, Russia, Russia, Russia.
My wife said,
“You never spoke to anybody
from Russia, darling.”
I said, “That’s right.”
(laughter)
But Ron DeSantis —
I like people that defend me.
You know, when people defend me,
I defend them.
(applause)
So he came.
That’s why I like Mark.
That’s why I like Mark Levin.
And I’m not sure
a lot of people like him.
He’s tough as hell.
But I like him. I love him.
But then we have Florida.
So, Ron DeSantis is at three.
Three.
He calls up, “Sir,
can I have your endorsement?”
I said, “Ron, you’re at three.
Your opponent is, I guess,
agriculture commissioner
— has 22 million in the bank.
His poll numbers are very good.
He’s up in the 20s or 30s.”
I said, “Ron, don’t make me
do this, Ron.”
(laughter)
“Sir, I can win.”
“All right, Ron. Here we go.”
Because I know if he loses —
which almost never happens
when I endorse somebody.
Almost never.
Only one time,
and that was because it was done
in the middle
of the day of the election.
Nobody knew I did it.
They got home, they said,
“I didn’t know Trump
endorsed him.”
But we rarely, rarely lose.
But I said, “Ron, don’t do it.”
I said, “All right, I’ll do it.”
He went from 3 to 60.
To 60.
(applause)
And then he ran against a guy
who had unbelievable support.
He had every celebrity
go into Florida.
He had money all over the place.
And Ron was in there pitching,
and I was in there
pitching with him.
And we now have a great governor
in the state of Florida.
(applause)
And I could mention
many others —
other governors,
many other states.
But I’m not going
to bore you with it.
And I think — I really think
that it’s incredible
what we did in the midterms.
I think it’s incredible.
Governor of Florida.
Governor of Ohio.
Remember, “You can’t win unless
you win the state of Ohio.”
We got the governor of Ohio,
and he’s great.
Mike.
We love you, Mike.
(applause)
As we defend American values
at home, we are also defending.
American security abroad.
We have secured
all sorts of funding,
all sorts of record everything.
And we will never forget
our military.
We will never forget
our veterans.
We are taking care
of our veterans
like they’ve never been
taken care of before.
(applause)
We just got them Choice,
so now they can go see a doctor.
(applause)
Now they can go and see a doctor
instead of waiting on line
for weeks and weeks and weeks.
And we got them Accountability.
You couldn’t fire anybody
in the VA.
You had sadists.
You had people that took
advantage of our veterans.
They’ve hit them.
They were sadists.
They were sick people.
You couldn’t fire them.
You had thieves that were
stealing — openly stealing.
You couldn’t fire them.
I got a bill passed: VA
Accountability.
Now you look at the guy,
you say,
“Get the hell out of here.
You’re fired. Get out.”
(applause)
Nobody
thought we could get it.
For 40 years
they tried to get it.
For 40 years they tried
to get it; they couldn’t get it.
And VA Choice,
they thought — for many,
many decades they’d been trying
to get VA Choice.
You couldn’t get it.
Now, instead of waiting on line
for two days,
nine days, three weeks —
people were dying.
People that weren’t very sick
would be dead
by the time they saw a doctor,
six weeks later.
Now these great veterans,
if there’s a big wait,
they go outside,
they go to a local doctor.
We pay the bills.
They get better.
Everybody is happy.
And we actually save a lot
of money, if you can believe it.
(applause)
And I got that approved
after 44 years of being unable
to get it approved —
for our veterans.
We love our veterans.
(applause)
And just in finishing up,
as you know,
I just returned
from Vietnam,
where I had
very productive meetings
with Chairman Kim Jong Un.
Very productive. We get along.
(applause)
We’ve developed a good
relationship —
very good — and made
great historic progress.
And I do get a kick out
of all these people
in previous administrations:
“Donald Trump should not,
under any circumstances,
be doing this or that.”
You know, they’re telling me
how to negotiate.
These guys died.
One administration gave billions
of dollars to him
and got nothing.
And we haven’t given him
anything yet.
I look forward to maybe
doing something at some point.
But I know one thing: I’m going
to get other countries to give.
Maybe not us, but I’m going
to get other countries to give,
and if it all works out.
(applause)
If it all works out.
But I had to walk.
Because every once in a while,
you have to walk,
because the deal wasn’t a deal
that was acceptable to me.
I don’t like these deals
that politicians make.
They make a deal
just for the sake of doing it.
I don’t want to do that.
I want to make a deal
that either works,
or let’s not make it.
(applause)
But the one thing we have,
though, is we have no testing,
no missiles going up,
no rockets going up.
No nuclear testing.
We got our great people back.
We get our great,
great people.
And that includes our beautiful,
beautiful Otto — Otto Warmbier —
whose parents I’ve gotten
to know, who’s incredible.
And I’m in such a horrible
position,
because in one way
I have to negotiate.
In the other way,
I love Mr. and Mrs. Warmbier,
and I love Otto.
And it’s a very,
very delicate balance.
He was a special young man.
And to see what happened
was so bad.
It was so bad.
And a lot of what I do
with respect to North Korea,
and any success
that we hopefully have —
and we’ve had a lot.
We’re given no credit.
They don’t remember that,
in the last days
of the Obama administration,
rockets were flying
all over the place,
nuclear testing was going on.
Mountains were being —
these are big mountains.
They were being shoved
over three, four inches.
People thought it was
massive earthquakes,
then they found out,
no, that was nuclear weapons —
nuclear testing.
So much.
We’re getting the remains back
of a lot of our soldiers
from many, many years ago.
(applause)
Mike Pence was in Hawaii.
It was one of the most
beautiful ceremonies.
We’ve made a lot of progress,
and we’ll continue
to make progress.
And I really think what we’re
doing there is very important.
But we actually had to walk,
but I think we had
a very good meeting.
In fact, when I came home,
they put out a statement that,
actually,
they were willing
to do much less
on the sanction front.
But you see,
that’s not what happened there.
So already, I think
we’re negotiating.
And I’ll tell you this:
North Korea has an incredible,
brilliant economic future,
if they make a deal.
But they don’t have
any economic future
if they have nuclear weapons.
It’s really a bad thing
for them.
So we’ll see how it all goes.
But I think it’s going well.
I think we learned a lot
over the last couple of days.
And again, the relationship
seems to be very, very strong.
And that’s an important thing,
especially when we’re dealing
with this kind of a situation.
(applause)
For years, you watched as your
leaders apologized for America.
You saw that.
Would you like to apologize?
No. I’m not apologizing.
(applause)
Now you have a President
who is standing up for America.
After decades of building
up foreign nations,
we are finally
building up our nation,
and we are doing it
with American hands,
American grit,
and with beautiful,
beautiful American steel.
(applause)
We are fighting to ensure
that every young American
inherits the same blessings
and the same
boundless opportunity
that our ancestors fought to
secure with all of their heart,
might, and soul.
Now more than ever, we need
the proud men and women of CPAC.
And I want to thank everybody
here, because it is incredible.
Your organization is incredible.
Matt and Mercedes, incredible.
(applause)
You’re energized, you’re
mobilized, and you’re engaged.
We need your voice.
We need your patriotism.
We need your commitment.
We need your incredible spirit
on the Fourth of July.
We are having,
in Washington, D.C.,
a great tribute to America.
I hope you can all come.
Fourth of July —
keep it open.
We want to bring millions
of people into the city,
and we want people to come
who love our country.
Those are the people we want.
The Fourth of July.
(applause)
A salute to America.
Now is the time to embrace
the promise of our history.
Now is the time to defend
our American legacy.
And now is the time
to seize our glorious destiny.
And, by the way,
I’m watching those doors.
Not one person has left, and
I’ve been up here a long time.
(laughter)
I said, “Matt, is that okay?”
He said, “I love it.
Don’t leave.”
But not one person.
So if you hear tomorrow,
when they read “people left” —
nobody left early.
There hasn’t been
one person that’s left.
But when you read it,
you just say “fake news.”
(applause)
This magnificent nation
will always be the home
of those who cherish life,
who love liberty,
and who defend the sacred rights
given to us by Almighty God.
(applause)
Together, we are one people,
one family,
and one nation, forever united
behind one great American flag.
(applause)
Thank you to everybody
in this room
and to all of
the other rooms,
all over the campus
and all over the country.
We’re hooked in all
over the country.
Thank you very much.
I want to thank CPAC.
What a job they’ve done.
What a job Matt Schlapp
and his family
have done in such
a short period of time,
in bringing this to a level
like it’s never been before.
God bless you. God bless
the United States of America.
Thank you very much.
(applause)